# WaveGuide-Mode-Visualizer

This is a program written in Python 3.7 with 3D Visualization Package Mayavi and PyQt5 Package.

## To setup the dependencies:

If you are using Conda environment for python, then execute this in Anaconda Prompt: `conda install -c anaconda mayavi`

If you are using Python Natively, use pip package manager: `pip install mayavi`

## Abstract
Wave Guides are made of rectangular or cylindrical metal pipes which are used for microwave communications, radio broadcasting, and radar communications. They are mostly used as Horn or Dish antennas. An Electromagnetic field propagates in Transverse Electric(TE) and Transverse Magnetic(TM) Modes. In TE mode, the electric field lines are perpendicular to the direction of propagation i.e., transverse. Similarly for the TM mode, the Magnetic field is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave. For the proper functioning of the Waveguide, the dimensions of the waveguide must be suitable with respect to the frequency in which it is operating on. If the dimension of Waveguide is very small or the frequency is very low, the electromagnetic field cannot propagate. Usually, the frequency range is in the order of GHz which is around radiofrequency. There exist a cut-off frequency which is the minimum frequency for the operation of the Waveguide. If the operating frequency is more than the cut-off frequency, it will operate with ease. This Visualization helps us to picture the field lines of Electric and Magnetic Fields generated due to the transmission of Electro-magnetic Waves inside rectangular Waveguide with any dielectric medium filling the waveguide. Under the consideration that the dielectric materials occurring in nature do not exhibit magnetic properties at the frequencies in which our dielectric operate, $\mu_r$(relative magnetic permeability) is very close to 1, therefore n(refractive index of dielectric medium) is approximately taken to be $\sqrt{\varepsilon_r}$(relative electric permittivity) from the definition $n = \sqrt{\varepsilon_r \mu_r}$. This Visualization also helps us to visualize different permitted modes of both TE and TM Waves. This Visualization also takes care of the Minimum cut-off frequency for the given configuration. The study of Wave Guides is necessary for the understanding of and innovation in next-generation wireless technologies. Wave Guides are generally very heavyweight components but technological innovations will bring drastic modifications in the understanding and implementation of working of Wave Guides. Radio waves are used for communication, wireless power transfer, and sensing. The hurdles limiting from the development of these technologies will turn to opportunities completely by the use of waveguides.
